---
layout: post
title: "[11] Rewrite I"
description: ""
category: toefl writing 
tags: []
---
{% include JB/setup %}

####[11] Should universities finance students' sports activities equally as libraries
___

For a university, education and research are its major duty and function. Libraries are worthy of investments since they offer comfortable places to do research and study. However, universities should give equal weight to libraries and students' sports activities, because a good brain will not play well without a better body.

Firstly, sport activities contribute to the physical fitness of students. More and more students are overweight nowadays, which becomes a potential threat to their health. Most of those students almost get no sport activities in their daily life. But if the universities make an effort to hire more sports teachers, organize more sports activities and open more sports spaces, things will definitely be different. Running helps students lose weights and keep fit, playing balls games promotes their speed and builds their muscles, and Judo or boxing teaches them how to focus. In return, a healthy body will support the mind to work constantly for the family and society, which is actually the goal of universities.

Secondly, physical challenges build mental strength. It's not easy to become the winner in a sport activity, especially in some activities like marathon, triathlon. To get an excellent score in a competition. Students not only need strong bodies and outstanding skills, but also should keep faith in their minds and never give up. They could hardly comprehend the spirit of sports from the books in libraries. Besides, in soccer or baseball games students are trained into good team players, as without close cooperation they could never win the game. Douglas MacArthur, the former president of the West Point Army Academy, once advocated that every cadet at the Academy should become an athlete. Sports activities were given high priority to achieve this goal, and each cadet was required to participate in at least one sport activity each semester. With a solider mind and an athletic body, the majority of the graduates of the Academy became great generals in U. S. Army or successful leaders in different industries. 

Therefore, universities should finance students' sports activities as libraries. As to make a career, both the brain and the body could be missed. 
