---
layout: post
title: "[12] update"
description: ""
category:
-toefl writing 
tags: []
---

{% include JB/setup %}

####[12] Why people visit museums?


* ’_’ underline parts are phrases or words still with doubts

People start a trip to a new place for various purposes. Some travel for experiencing different culture, history and art, some for entertainments and relaxing themselves. Therefore, a local museum becomes a good choice for visitors who just set foot on the new land.

A museum keeps a great number of valuable artworks and educational relics. It's like back to old times when people take a walk in a historical museum. The answers about how the ancestors cook and what they preferred to eat are waiting for visitors to discover by themselves. Those real objects could leave a deeper impression on guests than books or videos. Shanxi Museum is famous for treasuring a variety of collections dating back to the Qin Dynasty. Until now, some swords from soldiers of Qin are still shining and sharp. Besides, it's shocking and fascinating that thousands of Terra-Cotta Warriors have different appearances from each other, which were regarded as the guards of the First Emperor of Qin. However, photos can hardly illustrate that the pottery technology had been developed tremendously in the Qin Dynasty. Museums contribute a lot in providing people knowledge and evidences in fields like history and arts.

Except for education, a museum is also a nice place for relaxing and entertainments. People could watch selected movies in the movie theater of a museum. There are also attractive performances like traditional operas and dances. For instance, famous Peking Opera actors and actresses are invited by Beijing Museum regularly to perform the evolution of Peking Opera. Visitors from all over the world not only get an opportunity to catch a glimpse of this old Chinese art style closely, but also relax themselves in the moving stories and songs. In addition, selecting and buying those exquisite custom-made souvenirs in the gift shop of a museum will be a happy time for tourists.

Meanwhile, a museum is a good choice for some people with no specific destinations. Tickets to most museums are at a low price or even free. The building of every museum is well designed, like the Soochow Museum is designed by the brilliant architect Leoh Ming Pei. With snow-white walls and black tiles, the Soochow Museum in old Soo Style will definitely appeal to you. Therefore. wandering in the museum is an unordinary amazing journey. All in all, museums are not only about the history and culture, but also a good place for people to enjoy themselves.