---
layout: post
title: "PyCon 2016 Canada Day 1"
description: ""
categories: 
tags: []
---

Last time I attended PyCon was in 2012 at Shanghai, with a 99 RMB early-bird ticket purched via AliPay. My friend and I took a subway, Line 5 -> Line 1 -> Line 10, almost __3 hrs__. This time I become a volunteer in PyCon 2016, Canada! Thanks to the perfect geographical location of U*of*T, it takes me around 15 mins --- by walking. 

Though I use multiple languages in my projects, Python is always my favourite; Though I have been using the macOS since `10.8`, I always have a passion in Linux and Open Source community. My friend [@zzq](https://twitter.com/zzq889) and I once spent days and nights on Ubuntu and ArchLinux (we also tried RedHat, Fedora, OpenSuse, Solaris and CentOS _etc._), exploring fancy projects and tweaking various config files. Being a volunteer in PyCon is a great opportunity for me to connect to the community and make some contribution.

I have serveral bullets to mark down for the first day:

* People use a lot of GIFs in their slides, which bring hilarious points.
* GitHub provides quite a few utilities for deployment, like [Boxen](https://github.com/boxen), [Hubot](https://hubot.github.com) _etc_.
* Binary protocol or text protocol means a lot for low latency networking, particularly for DB access. Check [uvloop](https://magic.io/blog/uvloop-blazing-fast-python-networking/).
* I should learn more about `yield` and `genenrator` in Python.
* I am eager to learn more about design patterns in Python, and what is the best way to learn and practise.
* The internal implementation and memory management behind Python means a lot on performance and accuracy. Check [talk by en zyme](https://2016.pycon.ca/en/schedule/101-en-zyme/).

<blockquote class="instagram-media" data-instgrm-version="7" style=" background:#FFF; border:0; border-radius:3px; box-shadow:0 0 1px 0 rgba(0,0,0,0.5),0 1px 10px 0 rgba(0,0,0,0.15); margin: 1px; max-width:658px; padding:0; width:99.375%; width:-webkit-calc(100% - 2px); width:calc(100% - 2px);"><div style="padding:8px;"> <div style=" background:#F8F8F8; line-height:0; margin-top:40px; padding:50.0% 0; text-align:center; width:100%;"> <div style=" background:url(data:image/png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAACwAAAAsCAMAAAApWqozAAAABGdBTUEAALGPC/xhBQAAAAFzUkdCAK7OHOkAAAAMUExURczMzPf399fX1+bm5mzY9AMAAADiSURBVDjLvZXbEsMgCES5/P8/t9FuRVCRmU73JWlzosgSIIZURCjo/ad+EQJJB4Hv8BFt+IDpQoCx1wjOSBFhh2XssxEIYn3ulI/6MNReE07UIWJEv8UEOWDS88LY97kqyTliJKKtuYBbruAyVh5wOHiXmpi5we58Ek028czwyuQdLKPG1Bkb4NnM+VeAnfHqn1k4+GPT6uGQcvu2h2OVuIf/gWUFyy8OWEpdyZSa3aVCqpVoVvzZZ2VTnn2wU8qzVjDDetO90GSy9mVLqtgYSy231MxrY6I2gGqjrTY0L8fxCxfCBbhWrsYYAAAAAElFTkSuQmCC); display:block; height:44px; margin:0 auto -44px; position:relative; top:-22px; width:44px;"></div></div><p style=" color:#c9c8cd; font-family:Arial,sans-serif; font-size:14px; line-height:17px; margin-bottom:0; margin-top:8px; overflow:hidden; padding:8px 0 7px; text-align:center; text-overflow:ellipsis; white-space:nowrap;"><a href="https://www.instagram.com/p/BMsTEfsBQqr/" style=" color:#c9c8cd; font-family:Arial,sans-serif; font-size:14px; font-style:normal; font-weight:normal; line-height:17px; text-decoration:none;" target="_blank">A photo posted by Hao Wang (@chapter09)</a> on <time style=" font-family:Arial,sans-serif; font-size:14px; line-height:17px;" datetime="2016-11-12T01:46:12+00:00">Nov 11, 2016 at 5:46pm PST</time></p></div></blockquote> <script async defer src="//platform.instagram.com/en_US/embeds.js"></script>
